RHIDP-7560 - Install and configure plugins from Extensions page (#1281)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/dynamic-plugins/proc-extensions-enabling-plugins-installation.adoc

[id="proc-extensions-enabling-plugins-installation_{context}"]
= Configuring {product-very-short} to install plugins by using Extensions

When you install a plugin using Extensions UI, the configuration that you use is saved to a `dynamic-plugins.extensions.yaml` file within the `dynamic-plugins-root` persistent volume. This ensures the configuration is available when you restart the application, allowing you to edit or re-enable the plugin.

You must create a persistent volume claim (PVC) to ensure that the cache persists when you restart the {product-very-short} application. For more information about using the dynamic plugins cache, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html-single/configuring_red_hat_developer_hub/index#using-the-dynamic-plugins-cache_running-behind-a-proxy[Using the dynamic plugins cache].

.Prerequisites
* You have created a persistent volume claim (PVC) for the dynamic plugins cache with the name *dynamic-plugins-root*.

> * You have installed Red Hat Developer Hub using the Helm chart or the Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have installed {product} using the Helm chart or the Operator.
```

[id="proc-extensions-enabling-plugins-installation_{context}"]
= Configuring {product-very-short} to install plugins by using Extensions

When you install a plugin, the configuration that you use is saved to a dynamic plugins cache to ensure that the same configuration is available when you edit, or re-enable the plugin. 

You must create a persistent volume cache (PVC) to ensure that the cache persists when you restart the {product-very-short} application. For more information about using the dynamic plugins cache, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html-single/configuring_red_hat_developer_hub/index#using-the-dynamic-plugins-cache_running-behind-a-proxy[Using the dynamic plugins cache].

.Prequisites
* You have created a persistent volume claim (PVC) for the dynamic plugins cache with the name *dynamic-plugins-root*.
* You have installed Red Hat Developer Hub using the Helm chart.

> * You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

Reviewer 2: I would add to all Prerequisites links for the instructions on how to do this if we have them documented.

.Procedure
. Create the marketplace configuration file and save it as `dynamic-plugins.marketplace.yaml`. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> plugins:

Reviewer 2: This is missing the frontend configuration, see: https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/1281#pullrequestreview-3091743115

Reviewer 2: Oh, okay I see we have it as a next step. I would suggest to simplify the setup and have it already in the default config file instead of updating it again.

Author: @dzemanov I've updated the code example in for creating the `dynamic-plugins-root/dynamic-plugins.extensions.yaml` file in _Configuring RHDH to install plugins by using Extensions_ and also changed the *marketplace* references to *extensions* for naming this file, as you suggested.

Could you please review again and let me know if the content is technically accurate.

+
[source,yaml,subs="+attributes"]
----
data:
  dynamic-plugins.yaml: |
    includes:
    - dynamic-plugins.default.yaml
    - /dynamic-plugins-root/dynamic-plugins.marketplace.yaml
    plugins: 
    - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/backstage-community-plugin-rbac
    - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/red-hat-developer-hub-backstage-plugin-marketplace
      disabled: false
      pluginConfig:
        dynamicPlugins:
            frontend:
            red-hat-developer-hub.backstage-plugin-marketplace:
                appIcons:
                - name: marketplace
                    importName: MarketplaceIcon
                dynamicRoutes:
                - path: /extensions/catalog
                    importName: DynamicMarketplacePluginRouter
                mountPoints:
                - mountPoint: application/provider
                    importName: InstallationContextProvider
                - mountPoint: internal.plugins/tab
                    importName: DynamicMarketplacePluginContent
                    config:
                    path: marketplace

>                     title: Catalog

Reviewer 3: fix the indentation here
